# IS1003-Project
Fraud Bank Transaction Analysis  

For this project we chose to analyze a dataset that contains bank fraud transactions. We selected this document because of how common this type of fraud occurs, to allow people to get better insight on the different ways that they can happen in, and whether someone's lifestyle is more targeted. Our goal is to provide insight on this dataset by answering multiple different questions considering different factors such as: the transaction type, location, channel, timeframe, victims occupation, age, and account balance before the transaction. 


We began our analysis by identifying the patterns of the frauds recorded looking into average amount of credit and debit transaction type. We were able to see that there was not much of a difference between the two averages, but that there was a higher number of debt transactions recorded in this set we chose. Afterwards, we dove into the most and least affected cities that these false transactions happened in. These results are very important because it points out where many hackers may be looking into more and allows people to either be more aware if they are in that area or stray away from it completely.  


Another factor we dove into was if there was a pattern in occupation, the amounts taken, and balance in account before the transaction. In which, there didn't seem to be a trend in occupation since they mostly ranged from 700 to 600 for each, but students were found to have the highest average taken from them during the transaction. Now when it comes to the account balance before any fraudulent transaction was made the amounts vary dramatically. However, after averaging it out it came to around 5411.90 dollars. Looking into the different age of victims it did show a trend of people that are 60-65, 29, and 78 were highly targeted with high transaction amounts.  


We then examined the number of transactions that were made from each channel, whether it was through an ATM, online, or branch. With the ATM being the highest it went to show how simple it can be for someone to overlook another person’s personal information or even how easy it can be for someone to fall victim to an ATM card skimmer. These frauds can happen as fast as 10 seconds and suggests how quickly they can get access to your account with a low login attempt count. To provide more information on those topics our data averaged out to around 1.12 login attempts before the transaction was made, and the average time taken being 119.64 seconds.  

 
To conclude, this analysis contains vast amounts of data that can be helpful to direct people on what to be more aware of to avoid fraudulent bank transactions. Even though all the data seems to not point out any exact pattern in the transactions, it emphasizes that it can happen to anybody no matter the age, location, account balance, and occupation just to take care of their information and keep track of transactions made on their account. As people are becoming more tech savvy and hackers are becoming more advanced it is important for people to become more aware of how to avoid falling into their trap. This can be done by being more cautious whether it is making an online purchase, being on different websites, giving out personal information, being aware on what hack is going around in their area, or even searching up different ways to try to avoid being a victim of hacks. 